cf-1627E :blobreach: (#2806)
cpinitiative/usaco-guide: solutions/cf-1627E.mdx

---
id: cf-1627E
source: CF
title: Not Escaping
author: Chongtian Ma
---

[Official Analysis](https://codeforces.com/blog/entry/99067)

## Alternate Explanation

There can be at most $n$ * $m$ rooms, which is about $10^{10}$ total rooms and too much to process. However, not all of them are relevant (i.e. there are some rooms where it is not a start point or an end point for a ladder, so processing them would be extraneous). Therefore, coordinate compression can be used here.

We can use shortest paths to solve the problem. Since we can move freely on a floor, we can perform dijkstra to find the minimal health to reach every room on that floor. Then, we can iterate over all the ladders on that floor and calculate the minimum health to travel to the endpoints of each ladder by using it.

## Implementation

<CPPSection>

```cpp
#include <bits/stdc++.h>
using namespace std;
using ll = long long;

> struct ladder {
> 	int from_row, from_col, to_row, to_col, health; 
> };

Reviewer: ```suggestion
struct ladder {
	int from_row, from_col;
	int to_row, to_col;
	int health;
};
```
also rename to `Ladder`

int main() {
	int t;
	cin >> t;
	

> 	for (int test = 1; test <= t; test++) {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	for (int test = 0; test < t; test++) {
```

		
		int n, m, k;
		cin >> n >> m >> k;

> 		vector<ll> x(n + 1);

Reviewer: at least use a better name for `x`

Author: the problem statement uses ```x``` bruh

Reviewer: give a name, what does it mean in the context of the problem?

Author: it'll be confusing if i change the name, i just added a comment

Reviewer: fair enough

Reviewer 2: where is the comment o.O

Author: it magically disappeared i swear

			
			for (int col: in_row) {
				// make sure we can reach the ladder point
				if (dist[row][col] != INT64_MAX) {
					pq.push({dist[row][col], col});
				}
			}
			
			while (!pq.empty()) {
				ll distance = pq.top().first;
				int col = pq.top().second;
				pq.pop();
				int index = lower_bound(in_row.begin(), in_row.end(), col) - in_row.begin();
				
				// we go to the left ladder on the same floor
				if (index > 0) {
					int left_col = in_row[index - 1];
					int dist_between = col - left_col;
					ll cost = dist_between * x[row] + distance;
					if (cost < dist[row][left_col]) {
						dist[row][left_col] = cost;
						pq.push({cost, left_col});
					}
				}
				
				// we go to the right ladder
				if (index < num_ladders - 1) {
					int right_col = in_row[index + 1];
					int dist_between = right_col - col;
					ll cost = dist_between * x[row] + distance;
					if (cost < dist[row][right_col]) {
						dist[row][right_col] = cost;
						pq.push({cost, right_col});
					}
				}
			}
			
			for (ladder i: ladder_row[row]) {
				if (dist[i.from_row][i.from_col] != INT64_MAX) {
					// min of if we take this ladder or not.
					ll from_dist = dist[i.from_row][i.from_col];

> 					dist[i.to_row][i.to_col] = min(dist[i.to_row][i.to_col], from_dist - i.health);

Reviewer: over 80 chars

Author: how should i shorten this? create a bunch of placeholder variables or use defines?

Author: @SansPapyrus683

Reviewer: ```cpp
x = min(
	a,
	b
)
```

Author: bruh

				}
			}
		}
		
		if (dist[n][m] == INT64_MAX) {
			cout << "NO ESCAPE" << "\n";

> 		}
> 		else {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
		} else {
```

Author: ???

---
id: cf-1627E
source: CF
title: Not Escaping
author: Chongtian Ma
---

[Official Analysis](https://codeforces.com/blog/entry/99067)

## Alternate Explanation

There can be at most $n$ * $m$ rooms, which is about $10^{10}$ total rooms and too much to process. However, not all of them are relevant (i.e. there are some rooms where it is not a start point or an end point for a ladder, so processing them would be extraneous). Therefore, coordinate compression can be used here.

We can use shortest paths to solve the problem. Since we can move freely on a floor, we can perform dijkstra to find the minimal health to reach every room on that floor. Then, we can iterate over all the ladders on that floor and calculate the minimum health to travel to the endpoints of each ladder by using it.

## Implementation

<CPPSection>

```cpp
#include <bits/stdc++.h>
using namespace std;
using ll = long long;

struct Ladder {
	int from_row, from_col;
	int to_row, to_col;
	int health; 
};

int main() {
	int t;
	cin >> t;
	

> 	for (int test = 0; test < t; test++) {

Author: can i ask you why?
does most people not know t stands for...?

> 	for (int test = 0; test < t; test++) {

Reviewer: more explicit
that 1 second where i have to stop & understand what `t` means is enough to throw me off

> 	for (int test = 0; test < t; test++) {

Author: > more explicit that 1 second where i have to stop & understand what `t` means is enough to throw me off

omg its totally not like the problem statement uses $t$ as well

> 	for (int test = 0; test < t; test++) {

Reviewer: some people don't read the variable names the statement uses

> 	for (int test = 0; test < t; test++) {

Author: give me a cp problem where $t$ doesn't stand for test cases

> 	for (int test = 0; test < t; test++) {

Reviewer: that doesn't respond to my argument

> 	for (int test = 0; test < t; test++) {

Author: it does, even if they dont read the statement $t$ should stand for test cases

> 	for (int test = 0; test < t; test++) {

Reviewer: > it does

how?

> even if they dont read the statement $t$ should stand for test cases

> that 1 second where i have to stop & understand what `t` means is enough to throw me off

> 	for (int test = 0; test < t; test++) {

Author: im saying that $t$ should be natural instinct for test cases and that your one second delay doesn't hold true for everyone. 
i could also make the same argument that it takes that extra 1 second for them to actually read the variable name

> 	for (int test = 0; test < t; test++) {

Reviewer: ykw if you're that adamant about it fine

				if (dist[row][col] != INT64_MAX) {
					pq.push({dist[row][col], col});
				}
			}
			
			while (!pq.empty()) {
				ll distance = pq.top().first;
				int col = pq.top().second;
				pq.pop();
				int index = lower_bound(in_row.begin(), in_row.end(), col) - in_row.begin();
				
				// we go to the left ladder on the same floor
				if (index > 0) {
					int left_col = in_row[index - 1];
					int dist_between = col - left_col;
					ll cost = dist_between * x[row] + distance;
					if (cost < dist[row][left_col]) {
						dist[row][left_col] = cost;
						pq.push({cost, left_col});
					}
				}
				
				// we go to the right ladder
				if (index < num_ladders - 1) {
					int right_col = in_row[index + 1];
					int dist_between = right_col - col;
					ll cost = dist_between * x[row] + distance;
					if (cost < dist[row][right_col]) {
						dist[row][right_col] = cost;
						pq.push({cost, right_col});
					}
				}
			}
			
			for (Ladder i: ladder_row[row]) {
				if (dist[i.from_row][i.from_col] != INT64_MAX) {
					// min of if we take this ladder or not.
					ll from = dist[i.from_row][i.from_col];
					dist[i.to_row][i.to_col] = min(dist[i.to_row][i.to_col], 

> 									from - i.health);

Author: it looks cheesy though

> 									from - i.health);

Reviewer: what

> 									from - i.health);

Author: looks out of place, idk

				}
			}
		}
		
		if (dist[n][m] == INT64_MAX) {
			cout << "NO ESCAPE" << "\n";
		} else {
			cout << dist[n][m] << "\n";

> 		}

Author: its not necessary?

> 		}

Reviewer: shorter & doesn't impact readability

> 		}

Author: > its not necessary?

> 		}

Author: its more explicit

> 		}

Reviewer: fair enough

---
id: cf-1627E
source: CF
title: Not Escaping
author: Chongtian Ma
---

[Official Analysis](https://codeforces.com/blog/entry/99067)

## Alternate Explanation

There can be at most $n$ * $m$ rooms, which is about $10^{10}$ total rooms and too much to process. However, not all of them are relevant (i.e. there are some rooms where it is not a start point or an end point for a ladder, so processing them would be extraneous). Therefore, coordinate compression can be used here.

We can use shortest paths to solve the problem. Since we can move freely on a floor, we can perform dijkstra to find the minimal health to reach every room on that floor. Then, we can iterate over all the ladders on that floor and calculate the minimum health to travel to the endpoints of each ladder by using it.

## Implementation

> 

Reviewer 3: add time complexity

Author: $O(n + k \log k)$? can you double check?

Reviewer 3: $\mathcal O(n + k\log^2 k)$ from `priority_queue` and `lower_bound`?

Author: hmm yeah, thanks

<CPPSection>

```cpp
#include <bits/stdc++.h>
using namespace std;
using ll = long long;

struct Ladder {
	int from_row, from_col;
	int to_row, to_col;
	int health; 
};

int main() {
	int t;
	cin >> t;
	
	for (int test = 0; test < t; test++) {
		
		int n, m, k;
		cin >> n >> m >> k;
		vector<ll> x(n + 1);  // cost multiplier for each row
		for (int i = 1; i <= n; i++) {
			cin >> x[i];
		}
		
		// stores all ladders info in the row they can be accessed.
		vector<vector<Ladder>> ladder_row(n + 1);
		
		// stores the columns where there is a ladder in each row.
		// also stores all the columns which are relevant in each row.
		vector<set<int>> ladder_col(n + 1);
		
		for (int i = 0; i < k; i++) {
			Ladder tmp;

> 			cin >> tmp.from_row >> tmp.from_col >> tmp.to_row >> tmp.to_col >> tmp.health;

Reviewer: is this under 80 chars

			ladder_row[tmp.from_row].push_back(tmp);
			ladder_col[tmp.from_row].insert(tmp.from_col);
			ladder_col[tmp.to_row].insert(tmp.to_col);
		}
		
		// base cases
		ladder_col[1].insert(1);
		ladder_col[n].insert(m);
		
		vector<map<int, ll>> dist(n + 1);
		for (int i = 1; i <= n; i++) {
			for (int j: ladder_col[i]) {
				dist[i][j] = INT64_MAX;
			}
		}
		dist[1][1] = 0;
		
		for (int row = 1; row <= n; row++) {
			int num_ladders = ladder_col[row].size();
			
			// a copy of ladder_col[row]
			vector<int> in_row(ladder_col[row].begin(), ladder_col[row].end());
			
			/*
			 * priority queue that sorts by minimum distance to that ladder first, 
			 * then col of ladder
			 */ 

> 			priority_queue<pair<ll, int>, vector<pair<ll, int>>, greater<pair<ll, int>>> pq;

Reviewer: 80 chars?

> 			for (int col: in_row) {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			for (int col : in_row) {
```

				pq.pop();
				int index = lower_bound(in_row.begin(), in_row.end(), col) - in_row.begin();
				
				// we go to the left ladder on the same floor
				if (index > 0) {
					int left_col = in_row[index - 1];
					int dist_between = col - left_col;
					ll cost = dist_between * x[row] + distance;
					if (cost < dist[row][left_col]) {
						dist[row][left_col] = cost;
						pq.push({cost, left_col});
					}
				}
				
				// we go to the right ladder
				if (index < num_ladders - 1) {
					int right_col = in_row[index + 1];
					int dist_between = right_col - col;
					ll cost = dist_between * x[row] + distance;
					if (cost < dist[row][right_col]) {
						dist[row][right_col] = cost;
						pq.push({cost, right_col});
					}
				}
			}
			
			for (Ladder i: ladder_row[row]) {
				if (dist[i.from_row][i.from_col] != INT64_MAX) {
					// min of if we take this ladder or not.
					ll from = dist[i.from_row][i.from_col];
					dist[i.to_row][i.to_col] = min(
									dist[i.to_row][i.to_col], 
									from - i.health
								      );
				}
			}
		}
		
		if (dist[n][m] == INT64_MAX) {
			cout << "NO ESCAPE" << "\n";
		} else {
			cout << dist[n][m] << "\n";
		}

> 	

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

	}
}
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

We can use shortest paths to solve the problem. Since we can move freely on a floor, we can perform dijkstra to find the minimal health to reach every room on that floor. Then, we can iterate over all the ladders on that floor and calculate the minimum health to travel to the endpoints of each ladder by using it.

## Implementation

<CPPSection>

```cpp
#include <bits/stdc++.h>
using namespace std;
using ll = long long;

struct Ladder {
	int from_row, from_col;
	int to_row, to_col;
	int health; 
};

int main() {
	int t;
	cin >> t;
	
	for (int test = 1; test <= t; test++) {
		
		int n, m, k;
		cin >> n >> m >> k;
		vector<ll> x(n + 1);
		for (int i = 1; i <= n; i++) {
			cin >> x[i];
		}
		
		// stores all ladders info in the row they can be accessed.
		vector<vector<Ladder>> ladder_row(n + 1);
		
		// stores the columns where there is a ladder in each row.
		// also stores all the columns which are relevant in each row.
		vector<set<int>> ladder_col(n + 1);
		
		for (int i = 0; i < k; i++) {

> 		Ladder tmp;

Reviewer 3: fix indent

Author: what exactly? i cant tell

Author: nvm

---
id: cf-1627E
source: CF
title: Not Escaping
author: Chongtian Ma
---

> [Official Analysis](https://codeforces.com/blog/entry/99067)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
[Official Analysis (C++, Java, and Python)](https://codeforces.com/blog/entry/99067)
```

## Alternate Explanation

> There can be at most $n$ * $m$ rooms, which is about $10^{10}$ total rooms and too much to process. However, not all of them are relevant (i.e. there are some rooms where it is not a start point or an end point for a ladder, so processing them would be extraneous). Therefore, coordinate compression can be used here.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There can be at most $n \cdot m$ rooms, which is about $10^{10}$ total rooms and too much to process. However, not all of them are relevant (i.e. there are some rooms that are not a start point or an end point for a ladder, so processing them would be extraneous). Therefore, coordinate compression can be used here.
```

We can use shortest paths to solve the problem. Since we can move freely on a floor, we can perform dijkstra to find the minimal health to reach every room on that floor. Then, we can iterate over all the ladders on that floor and calculate the minimum health to travel to the endpoints of each ladder by using it.

## Implementation

**Time Complexity: $\mathcal O(n + k\log^2 k)$**

<CPPSection>

```cpp
#include <bits/stdc++.h>
using namespace std;
using ll = long long;

struct Ladder {
	int from_row, from_col;
	int to_row, to_col;
	int health; 
};

int main() {
	int t;
	cin >> t;
	
	for (int test = 1; test <= t; test++) {
		
		int n, m, k;
		cin >> n >> m >> k;
		vector<ll> x(n + 1);
		for (int i = 1; i <= n; i++) {
			cin >> x[i];
		}
		
		// stores all ladders info in the row they can be accessed.
		vector<vector<Ladder>> ladder_row(n + 1);
		
		// stores the columns where there is a ladder in each row.

> 		// also stores all the columns which are relevant in each row.

Reviewer 4: multiline comments like this:

```
/*
 * omg
 * hi
 */
```

Author: they are two different statements though

		 * just all the columns which are relevant in each row.
		 */
		vector<set<int>> ladder_col(n + 1);
		
		for (int i = 0; i < k; i++) {
			Ladder tmp;

> 			cin >> tmp.from_row >> tmp.from_col >> tmp.to_row 
> 			>> tmp.to_col >> tmp.health;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
			cin >> tmp.from_row >> tmp.from_col >> tmp.to_row 
				>> tmp.to_col >> tmp.health;
```

					pq.push({dist[row][col], col});
				}
			}
			
			while (!pq.empty()) {
				ll distance = pq.top().first;
				int col = pq.top().second;
				pq.pop();
				int index = lower_bound(in_row.begin(), in_row.end(), col) 
				- in_row.begin();
				
				// we go to the left ladder on the same floor
				if (index > 0) {
					int left_col = in_row[index - 1];
					int dist_between = col - left_col;
					ll cost = dist_between * x[row] + distance;
					if (cost < dist[row][left_col]) {
						dist[row][left_col] = cost;
						pq.push({cost, left_col});
					}
				}
				
				// we go to the right ladder
				if (index < num_ladders - 1) {
					int right_col = in_row[index + 1];
					int dist_between = right_col - col;
					ll cost = dist_between * x[row] + distance;
					if (cost < dist[row][right_col]) {
						dist[row][right_col] = cost;
						pq.push({cost, right_col});
					}
				}
			}
			
			for (Ladder i : ladder_row[row]) {
				if (dist[i.from_row][i.from_col] != INT64_MAX) {
					// min of if we take this ladder or not.
					ll from = dist[i.from_row][i.from_col];
					dist[i.to_row][i.to_col] = min(
									dist[i.to_row][i.to_col], 
									from - i.health

> 								      );

Reviewer 4: what happened here :0

Author: sanspapyrus happened

> 					dist[i.to_row][i.to_col] = min(
> 									dist[i.to_row][i.to_col], 
> 									from - i.health
> 								      );

Reviewer 2: does this look better?
```suggestion
					dist[i.to_row][i.to_col] = min(
						dist[i.to_row][i.to_col], 
						from - i.health
					);
```

		}
		
		if (dist[n][m] == INT64_MAX) {
			cout << "NO ESCAPE" << "\n";
		}

> 		else {

Reviewer 4: inline

Author: tbh brackets look better lmao

Reviewer: disagree

Author: breh

		}

> 		else cout << dist[n][m] << "\n";

Reviewer: braces

Author: what?

Reviewer: add braces to the `else`

Author: ```suggestion
		}
		else { cout << dist[n][m] << "\n" };
```
like that?

Reviewer: i'll just do it myself

---
id: cf-1627E
source: CF
title: Not Escaping
author: Chongtian Ma
---

[Official Analysis (C++, Java, and Python)](https://codeforces.com/blog/entry/99067)

## Alternate Explanation

There can be at most $n \cdot m$ rooms, which is about $10^{10}$ total rooms and too much to process. However, not all of them are relevant (i.e. there are some rooms that are not a start point or an end point for a ladder, so processing them would be extraneous). Therefore, coordinate compression can be used here.

> We can use shortest paths to solve the problem. Since we can move freely on a floor, we can perform dijkstra to find the minimal health to reach every room on that floor. Then, we can iterate over all the ladders on that floor and calculate the minimum health to travel to the endpoints of each ladder by using it.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
We can use shortest paths to solve the problem. Since we can move freely on a floor, we can use Dijkstra's to find the minimal health to reach every room on that floor. Then, we can iterate over all the ladders on that floor and calculate the minimum health to travel to the endpoints of each ladder by using it.
```
